Recent research on twisted bilayer graphene (TBG) uncovered that its twist-angle-dependent electronic structure leads to a host of unique properties, such as superconductivity, correlated insulating states, and magnetism. The flat bands that emerge at low twist angles in TBG result in sharp features in the electronic density of states, affecting transport. Here we show that they lead to superior and tuneable thermoelectric (TE) performance. Combining an iterative Boltzmann transport equation solver and electronic structure from an exact continuum model, we calculate TE transport properties of TBG at different twist angles, carrier densities, and temperatures. Our simulations show the room-temperature TE power factor (PF) in TBG reaches 40 mW m(-1) K-2, significantly higher than single-layer graphene and among the highest reported to date. The peak PF is observed near the magic angle, at a twist angle of approximate to 1.3(circle), and near complete band filling. We elucidate that its dependence is driven by two opposing forces: the band gap between the flat and remote bands suppresses bipolar transport and improves the Seebeck coefficient but the gap decreases with twist angle; on the other hand, the Fermi velocity, which impacts conductivity, is smallest at the magic angle and rises with twist angle. We observed a further increase in the PF of TBG with decreasing temperature. The strong TE performance, along with the ability to fine-tune transport using twist angle, makes TBG an interesting candidate for future research and applications in energy conversion and thermal sensing and management.
Graphdiyne (GDY), a new highly pi-conjugated carbon allotrope, has drawn much attention for its unique electronic, and wide application potential in many fields. The special electronic and mechanical properties of GDY offer a good platform for electronic modification, activate the high electroactivity of modified GDY. Based on that, several approaches have been proposed to modify the electronic structure of GDY, including heteroatoms doping, anchoring single metal atoms, stacking configuration control, and strain engineering. With these modification techniques, the electronic structure, bandgap, and Femi-level can be widely tuned. In addition, GDY plays a vital role in highly efficient single-atom catalysts. It can act as the ideal supporting substrate for isolated single atoms due to its outstanding electrochemical properties. Meanwhile, the latest research is found that the modified GDY can be used as the high-performance oxygen reduction reactions, oxygen evolution reactions, hydrogen evolution reactions and nitrogen reduction reactions electrocatalysts. The summary of GDY electronic modification and its application also reveals that GDY-based materials have a bright future in the field of electrochemical catalysis.
Two-dimensional molybdenum disulfide (MoS2) possesses premium electrical, optoelectrical and valleytronic properties to develop future nano-electronic and optoelectronic devices. Valleytronic material platform with anisotropic response is highly desired to develop polarization sensitive valleytronic devices. In this work, we acquire monolayer MoS2 with both valley degree of freedom and anisotropy by introducing Re doping during chemical vapor deposition growth. The atomic substitution with Re element induces prominent n-type doping. Electrical tests under both dark and light illumination show that 5 at% Re-doped MoS2 achieves the optimum electrical and optoelectrical performances, corresponding to 27 and 35 times improved carrier mobility and photoresponsivity than pristine MoS2, respectively. Second harmonic generation (SHG) and polarization Raman spectroscopy (PRS) indicate increased anisotropic optical response of Re doped MoS2 as Re concentration increases: maximum anisotropic ratios of 1.6 and 1.7 have been achieved for SHG and PRS measurements at different doping concentrations, respectively. Circularly polarized PL measurement demonstrates that the Re-doped MoS2 preserves valley dependent optical response. Our theoretical calculations show that the anisotropic response is due to the strain induced by the dopants, so that the 2H lattice structure optical helicity dependent valley selection rules are largely preserved. The work opens promising venue toward polarization sensitive valleytronic material platform.
We study the stability and electronic structure of magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene on the hexagonal boron nitride (TBG/BN). Structural relaxation has been performed for commensurate supercells of the heterostructures with different twist angles (theta') and stackings between TBG and BN. We find that the slightly misaligned configuration with theta' = 0.54 degrees and the AA/AA stacking has the globally lowest total energy due to the constructive interference of the moir ' e interlayer potentials and thus the greatly enhanced relaxation in its 1x1 commensurate supercell. Gaps are opened at the Fermi level (E-F) for small supercells with the stackings that enable strong breaking of the C-2 symmetry in the atomic structure of TBG. For large supercells with theta' close to those of the 1x1 supercells, the broadened flat bands can still be resolved from the spectral functions. The theta' = 0.54 degrees is also identified as a critical angle for the evolution of the electronic structure with theta', at which the energy range of the mini-bands around E-F begins to become narrower with increasing theta' and their gaps from the dispersive bands become wider. The discovered stablest TBG/BN with a finite theta' of about 0.54 degrees and its gapped flat bands agree with recent experimental observations.
There has been a massive growth in the study of transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) over the past decade, based upon their interesting and unusual electronic, optical and mechanical properties, such as tuneable and strain-dependent bandgaps. Tungsten disulphide (WS2), as a typical example of TMDs, has considerable potential in applications such as strain engineered devices and the next generation multifunctional polymer nanocomposites. However, controlling the strain, or more practically, monitoring the strain in WS(2)and the associated micromechanics have not been so well studied. Both photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy have been proved to be effective but PL cannot be employed to characterise multilayer TMDs while it is difficult for Raman spectroscopy to reveal the band structure. In this present study, PL and Raman spectroscopy have been combined to monitor the strain distribution and stress transfer of monolayer WS(2)on a flexible polymer substrate and in polymer nanocomposites. It is demonstrated that WS(2)still follows continuum mechanics on the microscale and that strain generates a non-uniform bandgap distribution even in a single WS(2)flake through a simple strain engineering. It is shown that these flakes could be useful in optoelectronic applications as they become micron-sized PL emitters with a band gap that can be tuned by the application of external strain to the substrate. The analysis of strain distributions using Raman spectroscopy is further extended to thin-film few-layer WS(2)polymer nanocomposites where it is demonstrated that the stress can be transferred effectively to WS(2)flakes. The relationship between the mechanical behaviour of single monolayer WS(2)flakes and that of few-layer flakes in bulk composites is investigated.
Among the most common few-layers transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs), WSe2 is the most challenging material from the lattice dynamics point of view. Indeed, for a long time the main two phonon modes (A(1g) and ) have been wrongly assigned. In the last few years, these two modes have been properly interpreted, and their quasi-degeneracy in the monolayer has been used for its identification. In this work, we show that this approach has a limited validity and we propose an alternative, more general approach, based on multi-phonon bands. Moreover, we show and interpret all the peaks (about 40) appearing in the Raman spectra of monolayers, bilayers, and trilayers of WSe2 by combining experimental wavelength- and polarization-dependent Raman studies with density-functional theory calculations providing the phonon dispersions, the polarization-resolved first-order Raman spectra, and the two-phonon density of states. This complete study not only offers a method to distinguish between monolayers, bilayers, and trilayers with no need of optical images and atomic force microscopy, but it also sheds light on the interpretation of single and multi-phonon bands appearing in the inelastic light scattering experiments of layered WSe2; some of these bands were never observed before, and some were observed and uncertainly assigned. We promote the full understanding of the lattice dynamics of this material that is crucial for the realization of optoelectronics devices and of novel phononic metamaterials, such as TMDs superlattices.
We studied the nucleation and growth of hexagonal BN (h-BN) on AlN template on c-plane sapphire by metalorganic vapor phase epitaxy as functions of growth temperature, deposition time, and triethylboron (TEB) partial pressure. A lateral growth rate of about 25 nm min(-1) for h-BN nuclei was obtained by atomic force microscopy and a nucleation activation energy of 2.1 eV was extracted from the temperature dependence of the nucleation density. A large TEB flow rate strongly enhances the formation of h-BN nuclei. At a reduced TEB flow rate, we observed a significantly decreased nuclei density and a delay in nucleation due to TEB desorption. By fine tuning the growth parameters, single-crystalline multilayer h-BN was successfully formed on AlN surface, as confirmed by x-ray diffraction and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The epitaxial relationship between h-BN and AlN was [0 0 0 1](h-BN) parallel to [0 0 0 1](AlN) and [1 0 -10](h-BN) parallel to [1 1 -20](AlN) from TEM and electron backscatter diffraction measurements. In addition, TEM showed that the initial h-BN layers are not parallel and tend to form half-domes. On those half-domes (cap-shaped-like) a 2D lateral growth sets on, resulting in a well-oriented 2D multilayer observed in TEM. Thus, the surface topography further develops to form a relatively flat surface without wrinkles and finally a typical hexagon-like wrinkled surface at thicker h-BN layers. Particularly, the small h-BN nuclei have dangling bonds at their periphery that can interact with the substrate, forming actual bonds with AlN. Hence the choice on the substrate is important, despite the basal planes of multilayer h-BN are bonded by a weak van der Waals force.
2D nanopores can be used to electrophoretically drive DNA molecules, which can in turn be identified through measurable electronic current blockades. In this work, we use experimental data from molybdenum disulfide nanopores threading DNA nucleotides and propose a methodological approach to interpret DNA events. Specifically, the experimental ionic traces are used to train an unsupervised machine learning model for identifying distinct molecular events through the 2D nanopore. For the first time, we propose a clustering of experimental 2D nanopore data based on the ionic current blockade height and unrelated to the traditional dwell time for each DNA event. Within this approach, the blockade level information is implicitly included in the feature space analysis and does not need to be treated explicitly. We could show the higher efficiency of the blockade height over the traditional dwell time also in coping with sparse nanopore data sets. Our approach allows for a deep insight into characteristic molecular features in 2D nanopores and provides a feedback mechanism to tune these materials and interpret the measured signals. It has, thus, a high impact on the efficiency of 2D nanopore-based DNA sequencers.
Atomic collapse is a phenomenon inherent to relativistic quantum mechanics where electron states dive in the positron continuum for highly charged nuclei. This phenomenon was recently observed in graphene. Here we investigate a novel collapse phenomenon when multiple sub- and supercritical charges of equal strength are put close together as in a molecule. We construct a phase diagram which consists of three distinct regions: (1) subcritical, (2) frustrated atomic collapse, and (3) molecular collapse. We show that the single impurity atomic collapse resonances rearrange themselves to form molecular collapse resonances which exhibit a distinct bonding, anti-bonding and non-bonding character. Here we limit ourselves to systems consisting of two and three charges. We show that by tuning the distance between the charges and their strength a high degree of control over the molecular collapse resonances can be achieved.
The relative orientation of successive sheets, i.e. the stacking sequence, in layered 2D materials is central to the electronic, thermal, and mechanical properties of the material. Often different stacking sequences have comparable cohesive energy, leading to alternative stable crystal structures. Here we theoretically and experimentally explore different stacking sequences in the van der Waals bonded material hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN). We examine the total energy, electronic bandgap, and dielectric response tensor for five distinct high symmetry stacking sequences for both bulk and bilayer forms of h-BN. Two sequences, the generally assumed AA' sequence and the relatively unknown (for h-BN) AB (Bernal) sequence, are predicted to have comparably low energy. We present a scalable modified chemical vapor deposition method that produces large flakes of virtually pure AB stacked h-BN; this new material complements the generally available AA' stacked h-BN.
Few-layer black phosphorus (BP) is a direct band gap material with large exciton binding energies, and shows great promise in optoelectronic applications. Here, we study the excitons in BP-based heterostructures with encapsulation and spacer 2D layers, using first principles GW and Bethe-Salpeter equation (BSE) methods. The 2D layers chosen are germanium sulfide (GeS) and hexagonal boron nitride (hBN), representing respectively strong and weak hybridization with BP. Except for hBN-encapsulated BP, all systems host bright interlayer (or indirect) excitons. In contrast to 2D indirect gap heterostructures, the interlayer excitons here are much brighter. Strong hybridization between GeS and BP increases the effective mass and room temperature exciton lifetimes. In contrast, the hBN spacer layer decouples the BP monolayers in BP/hBN/BP, resulting in the lowest energy exciton being dark. Surprisingly, however, BP/hBN/BP hosts interlayer BP excitons that are even brighter than those in bilayer BP. This lowest energy bright exciton lies very close in energy to the dark state, resulting in an increased effective lifetime. Our work uncovers the interplay between interlayer interactions and the physics of interlayer excitons, and paves the way for the use of bottom-up materials design to optimize the dipole oscillator strengths and lifetimes of interlayer excitons for excitonic device applications.